These towering organisms live in such a horrendously harsh environment that one has to question whether they are really living at all. Native to [[Biome L]], they grow beneath the [[Arc Storm]] and make direct use of the [[Arc Energy]] constantly spewed out by the storm to grow. Their massive heights attract the frequent bursts of Arc Energy from the storm, conducting it down their trunks and storing it within their [[#Aetherium Core]].

A fully-grown adult specimen reaches over 100 meters into the sky and takes around 100 years to reach that height. Its base reaches around 8 meters in diameter, at the center of which sits its [[#Aetherium Core]]. Given the incredible utility that their cores provide even at smaller sizes, Arc Trees are usually harvested long before they reach their full size, and as such the number of cores that reach this size are a tiny fraction of all those produced.

# Reproduction
The Arc Tree reproductive cycle is completely asexual and is initiated by the contact between a tree's Aetherium Core and the ground. How exactly this comes to happen is the interesting part, and remains an inspiration to the city's many loose pyromaniacs. When a tree approaches its maximum size, it begins to exert less control in how it siphons collected Arc Energy into its core. Inevitably, its limit is exceeded and the tree rapidly disassembles itself in a spectacularly dimension-splitting (not literally) explosion, flinging fragments of its core all over the surrounding landscape to begin the next generation.

At present, this kind of occurrence is more of a consequence of gross incompetence and Arc Trees are generally disassembled in a more controlled manner by restricting the size of the "seed" cores that are exploded and the fragments scattered. However, the risk of an unplanned explosion remains when farming for the largest cores, which is the biggest factor in their rarity and astronomical value.

# Aetherium Core
The [[Arc Energy#Aetherium]] Core is a crystalline object that grows within every Arc Tree and is located near its base. Its composition remains a complete enigma despite all efforts to break it down to its components thus far, but that hasn't stopped extensive research and development into its practical applications. The maximum size that a core will reach is about 2 meters in diameter though most cores will be harvested once they reach a diameter of about 15 cm.